README.md, before:

# moltyjacs

JACS cryptographic provenance plugin for OpenClaw.

## Overview

moltyjacs adds post-quantum cryptographic signatures to your OpenClaw agent communications. It enables:

- **Document signing** - Sign any document with your agent's cryptographic identity
- **Verification** - Verify documents from other agents
- **Agent discovery** - Publish and discover agents via well-known endpoints and DNS
- **Multi-party agreements** - Create and manage agreements requiring multiple signatures

## Installation

### From npm

```bash
npm install moltyjacs
```

### From ClawHub

```bash
npx clawhub@latest install moltyjacs
```

### As OpenClaw Plugin

```bash
openclaw plugins install moltyjacs
```

### From GitHub

```bash
openclaw plugins install https://github.com/HumanAssisted/moltyjacs
```

## Quick Start

1. Initialize JACS with key generation:
   ```bash
   openclaw jacs init
   ```

2. Sign a document:
   ```bash
   openclaw jacs sign document.json
   ```

3. Verify a signed document:
   ```bash
   openclaw jacs verify signed-document.json
   ```

## CLI Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `openclaw jacs init` | Initialize JACS with key generation |
| `openclaw jacs status` | Show agent status and configuration |
| `openclaw jacs sign <file>` | Sign a document file |
| `openclaw jacs verify <file>` | Verify a signed document |
| `openclaw jacs hash <string>` | Hash a string |
| `openclaw jacs dns-record <domain>` | Generate DNS TXT record for discovery |
| `openclaw jacs lookup <domain>` | Look up another agent's info |
| `openclaw jacs register [--api-key <key>] [--preview]` | Register this agent with HAI.ai for attested trust level |
| `openclaw jacs attestation [domain]` | Check attestation status for this agent or another by domain |
| `openclaw jacs claim [level]` | Set or view verification claim (unverified \| verified \| verified-hai.ai) |

## HAI.ai registration

To get an attested trust level, register your agent with HAI.ai once: run `openclaw jacs register`. You must set the `HAI_API_KEY` environment variable or pass `--api-key`. Use `--preview` to see what would be sent without registering. After registration, use `openclaw jacs attestation` to check your (or another agent's) attestation status, and `openclaw jacs claim <level>` to set or view your verification claim. See [Configuration](#configuration) and [Security](#security) for related options.

## Agent Tools

When used with an AI agent, these tools are available:

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `jacs_sign` | Sign a document |
| `jacs_verify` | Verify a self-signed document |
| `jacs_verify_auto` | Verify any document (auto-fetches keys) |
| `jacs_fetch_pubkey` | Fetch another agent's public key |
| `jacs_verify_with_key` | Verify with a specific public key |
| `jacs_dns_lookup` | Look up DNS TXT record |
| `jacs_lookup_agent` | Get complete agent info |
| `jacs_create_agreement` | Create multi-party agreement |
| `jacs_sign_agreement` | Sign an agreement |
| `jacs_check_agreement` | Check agreement status |
| `jacs_hash` | Hash content |
| `jacs_identity` | Get your identity info |

## Well-Known Endpoints

Your agent exposes these endpoints:

- `GET /.well-known/jacs-pubkey.json` - Your public key
- `GET /jacs/status` - Health check
- `POST /jacs/verify` - Public verification
- `GET /jacs/attestation` - Full attestation status (trust level, HAI registration, DNS verification)

Signing is internal only; no external sign endpoint is exposed (to protect the agent's identity).

## Configuration

Configure via `openclaw.plugin.json`:

```json
{
  "keyAlgorithm": "pq2025",
  "autoSign": false,
  "autoVerify": true,
  "agentName": "My Agent",
  "agentDescription": "Description",
  "agentDomain": "agent.example.com"
}
```

`agentId` is set automatically when you run `openclaw jacs init` and is not edited in the config file.

### Environment variables

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `JACS_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` | Password for the encrypted private key; required for signing when not prompted (e.g. headless/CI). |
| `HAI_API_KEY` | Used by `openclaw jacs register`; can be passed via `--api-key` instead. |
| `HAI_API_URL` | Optional override for HAI API base URL (default `https://api.hai.ai`). |

The key password is generated at `openclaw jacs init` and must be stored securely.

### Key Algorithms

- `pq2025` (default) - Post-quantum ML-DSA-87
- `pq-dilithium` - Dilithium
- `ring-Ed25519` - Ed25519
- `RSA-PSS` - RSA with PSS padding

## Security

- Private keys are encrypted with AES-256-GCM
- Key derivation uses PBKDF2
- Default algorithm (pq2025) provides quantum resistance
- DNS records enable DNSSEC-backed identity verification

## Publishing

### To npm

```bash
npm run build
npm publish
```

### To ClawHub

```bash
npm run clawhub:publish
```

Or publish to both npm and ClawHub:

```bash
npm run publish:all
```

### Manual ClawHub Publishing

1. Install the ClawHub CLI:
   ```bash
   npm install -g clawhub
   ```

2. Publish the plugin:
   ```bash
   clawhub publish .
   ```

3. Sync updates:
   ```bash
   clawhub sync
   ```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Watch mode
npm run watch

# Test local installation
openclaw plugins install . --link
openclaw plugins list
```

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Links
- [HAI.AI](https://hai.ai)
- [JACS Documentation](https://github.com/HumanAssisted/JACS/)
- [OpenClaw](https://docs.openclaw.ai)
- [ClawHub](https://www.clawhub.com)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/HumanAssisted/moltyjacs)

Commit message:

better description of why to use jacs

README.md, after:

# moltyjacs

JACS cryptographic provenance plugin for OpenClaw.

## Why use JACS?

**So your OpenClaw agent can be trusted—and can trust others.** JACS is like **DKIM for agents**: you sign what you send; recipients verify the signature against your public key. It’s **decentralized**—no single authority. You publish your key (DNS, optional HAI.ai); others fetch and verify. Without it, nothing you say or do can be proven. With JACS you sign messages, commitments, and state; anyone with your public key can verify they came from you and weren’t altered. You get proof of origin, integrity, and accountability. Other agents can discover your key via DNS or HAI.ai and verify your documents; you verify theirs with `jacs_verify_auto` and optional trust levels (domain, attested). Keys and signed payloads stay local; you send the same signed JSON over any channel (WhatsApp, HTTP, MCP). **Use it whenever another agent or human needs to trust that you said or agreed to something.**

## Overview

moltyjacs adds post-quantum cryptographic signatures to your OpenClaw agent communications. It enables:

- **Document signing** - Sign any document with your agent's cryptographic identity
- **Verification** - Verify documents from other agents
- **Agent discovery** - Publish and discover agents via well-known endpoints and DNS
- **Multi-party agreements** - Create and manage agreements requiring multiple signatures

## Installation

### From npm

```bash
npm install moltyjacs
```

### From ClawHub

```bash
npx clawhub@latest install moltyjacs
```

### As OpenClaw Plugin

```bash
openclaw plugins install moltyjacs
```

### From GitHub

```bash
openclaw plugins install https://github.com/HumanAssisted/moltyjacs
```

## Quick Start

1. Initialize JACS with key generation:
   ```bash
   openclaw jacs init
   ```

2. Sign a document:
   ```bash
   openclaw jacs sign document.json
   ```

3. Verify a signed document:
   ```bash
   openclaw jacs verify signed-document.json
   ```

## CLI Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `openclaw jacs init` | Initialize JACS with key generation |
| `openclaw jacs status` | Show agent status and configuration |
| `openclaw jacs sign <file>` | Sign a document file |
| `openclaw jacs verify <file>` | Verify a signed document |
| `openclaw jacs hash <string>` | Hash a string |
| `openclaw jacs dns-record <domain>` | Generate DNS TXT record for discovery |
| `openclaw jacs lookup <domain>` | Look up another agent's info |
| `openclaw jacs register [--api-key <key>] [--preview]` | Register this agent with HAI.ai for attested trust level |
| `openclaw jacs attestation [domain]` | Check attestation status for this agent or another by domain |
| `openclaw jacs claim [level]` | Set or view verification claim (unverified \| verified \| verified-hai.ai) |

## HAI.ai registration

To get an attested trust level, register your agent with HAI.ai once: run `openclaw jacs register`. You must set the `HAI_API_KEY` environment variable or pass `--api-key`. Use `--preview` to see what would be sent without registering. After registration, use `openclaw jacs attestation` to check your (or another agent's) attestation status, and `openclaw jacs claim <level>` to set or view your verification claim. See [Configuration](#configuration) and [Security](#security) for related options.

## Agent Tools

When used with an AI agent, these tools are available:

| Tool | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `jacs_sign` | Sign a document |
| `jacs_verify` | Verify a self-signed document |
| `jacs_verify_auto` | Verify any document (auto-fetches keys) |
| `jacs_fetch_pubkey` | Fetch another agent's public key |
| `jacs_verify_with_key` | Verify with a specific public key |
| `jacs_dns_lookup` | Look up DNS TXT record |
| `jacs_lookup_agent` | Get complete agent info |
| `jacs_create_agreement` | Create multi-party agreement |
| `jacs_sign_agreement` | Sign an agreement |
| `jacs_check_agreement` | Check agreement status |
| `jacs_hash` | Hash content |
| `jacs_identity` | Get your identity info |

## Well-Known Endpoints

Your agent exposes these endpoints:

- `GET /.well-known/jacs-pubkey.json` - Your public key
- `GET /jacs/status` - Health check
- `POST /jacs/verify` - Public verification
- `GET /jacs/attestation` - Full attestation status (trust level, HAI registration, DNS verification)

Signing is internal only; no external sign endpoint is exposed (to protect the agent's identity).

## Configuration

Configure via `openclaw.plugin.json`:

```json
{
  "keyAlgorithm": "pq2025",
  "autoSign": false,
  "autoVerify": true,
  "agentName": "My Agent",
  "agentDescription": "Description",
  "agentDomain": "agent.example.com"
}
```

`agentId` is set automatically when you run `openclaw jacs init` and is not edited in the config file.

### Environment variables

| Variable | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `JACS_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` | Password for the encrypted private key; required for signing when not prompted (e.g. headless/CI). |
| `HAI_API_KEY` | Used by `openclaw jacs register`; can be passed via `--api-key` instead. |
| `HAI_API_URL` | Optional override for HAI API base URL (default `https://api.hai.ai`). |

The key password is generated at `openclaw jacs init` and must be stored securely.

### Key Algorithms

- `pq2025` (default) - Post-quantum ML-DSA-87
- `pq-dilithium` - Dilithium
- `ring-Ed25519` - Ed25519
- `RSA-PSS` - RSA with PSS padding

## Security

- Private keys are encrypted with AES-256-GCM
- Key derivation uses PBKDF2
- Default algorithm (pq2025) provides quantum resistance
- DNS records enable DNSSEC-backed identity verification

## Publishing

### To npm

```bash
npm run build
npm publish
```

### To ClawHub

```bash
npm run clawhub:publish
```

Or publish to both npm and ClawHub:

```bash
npm run publish:all
```

### Manual ClawHub Publishing

1. Install the ClawHub CLI:
   ```bash
   npm install -g clawhub
   ```

2. Publish the plugin:
   ```bash
   clawhub publish .
   ```

3. Sync updates:
   ```bash
   clawhub sync
   ```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Watch mode
npm run watch

# Test local installation
openclaw plugins install . --link
openclaw plugins list
```

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Links
- [HAI.AI](https://hai.ai)
- [JACS Documentation](https://github.com/HumanAssisted/JACS/)
- [OpenClaw](https://docs.openclaw.ai)
- [ClawHub](https://www.clawhub.com)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/HumanAssisted/moltyjacs)
